.\"
.\"  Copyright 2013 Sergey Shekyan
.\"
.\"  Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
.\"  you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
.\"  You may obtain a copy of the License at
.\" 
.\"  http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
.\" 
.\"  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
.\"  distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
.\"  WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
.\"  See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
.\"  limitations under the License.
.\"
.Dd November 25, 2013
.Dt SLOWHTTPTEST 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm slowhttptest
.Nd Denial Of Service attacks simulator
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm slowhttptest
.Bk -words
.Op Fl H|B|R|X
.Op Fl g
.Op Fl a Ar range start
.Op Fl b Ar range limit
.Op Fl c Ar number of connections
.Op Fl d Ar all traffic directed through HTTP proxy at host:port
.Op Fl e Ar probe traffic directed through HTTP proxy at host:port
.Op Fl f Ar value of Content-type header
.Op Fl i Ar interval in seconds
.Op Fl k Ar request multiply factor
.Op Fl l Ar test duration in seconds
.Op Fl m Ar value of Accept header
.Op Fl n Ar slow read interval in seconds
.Op Fl o Ar output file path and/or name
.Op Fl p Ar timeout for probe connection in seconds
.Op Fl r Ar connection per second
.Op Fl s Ar value of Content-Length header
.Op Fl t Ar HTTP verb
.Op Fl u Ar absolute URL
.Op Fl v Ar output verbosity level
.Op Fl w Ar advertised window size range start 
.Op Fl x Ar max length of follow up data
.Op Fl y Ar advertised window size range end
.Op Fl z Ar slow read from receive buffer in bytes
.Ek
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
implements most common low-bandwidth Application Layer DoS attacks
and produces CSV and HTML files with test statistics.
.Pp
Currently supported attacks are:
.Pp
.Bl -bullet -offset indent -compact
.It
Slowloris
.It
Slow HTTP POST
.It
Apache Range Header
.It
Slow Read
.El
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl g
Forces
.Nm
to generate CSV and HTML files when test finishes with timestamp in filename.
.It Fl H
Starts
.Nm
in SlowLoris mode, sending unfinished HTTP requests.
.It Fl B
Starts
.Nm
in Slow POST mode, sending unfinished HTTP message bodies.
.It Fl R
Starts
.Nm
in Range Header mode, sending malicious Range Request header data.
.It Fl X
Starts
.Nm
in Slow Read mode, reading HTTP responses slowly.
.It Fl a Ar start
Sets the start value of range-specifier for Range Header attack.
.It Fl b Ar bytes
Sets the limit value of range-specifier for Range Header attack.
.It Fl c Ar number of connections
Specifies the target number of connections to establish during the test.
.It Fl d Ar HTTP proxy host:port
Specifies HTTP proxy server to connect to for all connections.
.It Fl e Ar HTTP proxy host:port
Specifies HTTP proxy server to connect to for probe connections.
.It Fl f Ar content-type
Specifies the value of Content-Type header.
.It Fl i Ar seconds
Specifies the interval between follow up data for slowrois and Slow POST tests.
.It Fl k Ar pipeline factor
Specifies number of times the resource would be requested per socket in Slow Read test.
.It Fl l Ar seconds
Specifies test duration in seconds.
.It Fl m Ar accept
Specifies the value of Accept header.
.It Fl n Ar seconds
Specifies the interval between read operations for Slow Read test.
.It Fl o Ar file name
Specifies custom file name, effective with \-g.
.It Fl p Ar seconds
Specifies the interval to wait for HTTP response on probe connection, before marking the server as DoSed.
.It Fl r Ar connections per second
Specifies the connection rate.
.It Fl s Ar bytes
Specifies the value of Content-Length header for Slow POST test.
.It Fl t Ar HTTP verb
Specifies the verb to use in HTTP request.
.It Fl u Ar URL
Specifies the URL.
.It Fl v Ar level
Specifies the verbosity level of logging.
.It Fl w Ar bytes
Specifies the start of the range the TCP advertised window size would be picked from in Slow Read test.
.It Fl x Ar bytes
Specifies the maximum length of follow up data for slowloris and Slow POST tests.
.It Fl y Ar bytes
Specifies the end of the range the TCP advertised window size would be picked from in Slow Read test.
.It Fl z Ar bytes
Specifies the number of bytes to read from receive buffer with each read() operation.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
Start a slowloris test of host.example.com with 1000 connections, statistics goes into my_header_stats,
interval between follow up headers is 10 seconds and connection rate is 200 connections per second:
.Pp
.Dl $ slowhttptest -c 1000 -H -g -o my_header_stats -i 10 -r 200 -t GET -u https://host.example.com/index.html -x 24 -p 3
.Pp
Start slow POST test of host.example.com with 3000 connections, statistics goes into my_body_stats,
interval between follow up headers is 110 seconds, connection rate is 200 connections per second,
Content-Length header value is 8192, maximum length of follow up data is random value limited by 10 bytes and probe connections waits 3 seconds for HTTP response before marking server as DoSed:
.Pp
.Dl $ slowhttptest -c 3000 -B -g -o my_body_stats -i 110 -r 200 -s 8192 -t FAKEVERB -u http://host.example.com/loginform.html -x 10 -p 3
.Pp
Start Range Header test of host.example.com with 1000 connections, use HEAD verb,
and generate HTTP header Range:0-, x-1, x-2, x-3, ... x-y, where x is 10 and y is 3000,
connection rate is 500:
interval between follow up headers is 10 seconds and connection rate is 200 connections per second:
.Pp
.Dl $ slowhttptest -R -u http://host.example.com/ -t HEAD -c 1000 -a 10 -b 3000 -r 500
.Pp
Start Slow Read test of host.example.com with 8000 connections, no statistics is generated,
connection rate is 200 connections per second, TCP advertised window size is a random value
between 512 and 1024,
.Nm
reads 32 bytes from each connections every 5 seconds, 3 requests are pipelined per each connections,
probe connection waits 3 seconds for HTTP response before marking server as DoSed:
.Pp
.Dl $ slowhttptest -c 8000 -X -r 200 -w 512 -y 1024 -n 5 -z 32 -k 3 -u https://host.example.com/resources/index.html -p 3
.Pp
Start Slow Read test of host.example.com through HTTP proxy server at 10.10.0.1:8080 with 8000 connections, no statistics is generated, the rest test values are default.
.Nm
most likely would test HTTP proxy server itself, rather than target server, but it all depends on the HTTP proxy server implementation:
.Pp
.Dl $ slowhttptest -d 10.10.0.1:8080 -c 8000 -X -u https://host.example.com/resources/index.html
.Pp
Start Slow Read test of host.example.com and direct probe traffic through HTTP proxy server at 10.10.0.1:8080 with 8000 connections, no statistics is generated, the rest test values are default.
Specifying another connection channel for probe connections helps to make sure that
.Nm
shows valid statistics for availability of server under test:
.Pp
.Dl $ slowhttptest -e 10.10.0.1:8080 -c 8000 -X -u https://host.example.com/resources/index.html
.Pp
.Sh AUTHOR
Sergey Shekyan
.Aq shekyan@gmail.com .
.Pp 
Project page
.Aq https://github.com/shekyan/slowhttptest/ .
